.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2013, The Trustees of Princeton University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ARPSEND 8 "Nov 6 2013" "Princeton Univ."
.SH NAME
arpsend \- send an Ethernet frame containing an IP ARP request or reply packet with user-specified fields
.SH SYNOPSIS
arpsend
[
.B \-c
.I count
]
[
.B \-d
.I debuglevel
]
[
.B \-h
]
[
.B \-p
.I pause_time
]
[
.B \-q
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-w
]
.br
        [
.B \-i
.I interface_name
]
.br
        [
.B \-E
.I ether_source_address
]
[
.B \-e
.I ether_dest_address
]
.br
        [
.B \-Q
.I vlan_id
]
.br
        [
.B \-o
.I arp_opcode
]
.br
        [
.B \-S
.I sender_hardware_address
]
[
.B \-s
.I sender_protocol_address
]
.br
        [
.B \-T
.I target_hardware_address
]
.B \-t
.I target_protocol_address
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
arpsend 
sends an Ethernet frame containing an IP ARP request or reply packet containing fields you specify.
This is a diagnostic tool intended for use by network administrators.
.PP
The program does not listen for any ARP replies; if you want to see
any ARP replies prompted by a request, you should use another program
to do so, such as 
.BR tcpdump (1).
.SH AVAILABILITY
.PP
arpsend
is a product of the Network Systems Group at
Princeton University's Office of 
Information Technology,
and is available from
http://www.net.princeton.edu/software/arpsend/
.PP
Presently the product builds and runs on Solaris 9 and 10 on SPARC with gcc.
.PP
The program relies on the
.BR libnet (3)
library.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c \ count
Specifies the number of packets to send.
If not specified, this defaults to 1.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debug_level
Sets the
.I debug_level
variable that controls the amount of debugging messages generated.
If not specified, this defaults to 0 (no debugging).
Presently no debugging messages are defined.
.TP
.BI \-E \ ether_source_address
Specifies the source address of the Ethernet frame.
If not specified, this defaults to the Ethernet address of the outgoing interface.
(Some environments may not allow you to override this value.)
.TP
.BI \-e \ ether_dest_address
Specifies the destination address of the Ethernet frame.
If not specified, this defaults to the Ethernet broadcast address.
.TP
.B \-h
Display a brief usage summary, then exit.
.TP
.BI \-i \ interface_name
Specifes the name of the Ethernet interface through which the packet should be sent.
If not specified, this defaults to the first interface that is up (other than loopback).
.TP
.BI \-o \ arp_opcode
Specifies the ARP opcode; valid values are 1 (ARP Request) and 2 (ARP Reply).
If not specified, this defaults to 1 (ARP Request).
.TP
.BI \-p \ pause_time
Specifies the number of seconds to pause between sending each packet,
when the packet count is great than 1.
If not specified, this defaults to 1 second.
.TP
.B \-q
Specifies 'quiet' operation; only errors and warnings are displayed.
.TP
.BI \-Q \ vlan_id
Tag the frame with an 802.1Q VLAN ID.
.TP
.BI \-S \ sender_hardware_address
Specifies the ARP 
.IR "sender hardware address" .
If not specified, this defaults to the Ethernet address of the outgoing interface.
.TP
.BI \-s \ sender_protocol_address
Specifies the ARP 
.IR "sender protocol address" .
If not specified, this defaults to the primary IP address of the outgoing interface.
.TP
.BI \-T \ target_hardware_address
Specifies the ARP 
.IR "target hardware address" .
If not specified, this default to 0:0:0:0:0:0. 
.TP
.BI \-t \ target_protocol_address
Specifies the ARP 
.IR "target protocol address" .
This option must be specified; no default value is supplied.
.TP
.B \-v
Display the program's version number, then exit.
.TP
.B \-w
Specifies that 
arpsend
should not warn you about values that might cause network problems.
.SH OPERATION
arpsend 
is a diagnostic tool intended to be used by an network administrator.
It is possible to specify values that will interfere with the normal
operation of devices attached to the network, or the network as a whole.
.PP
arpsend
checks for the most-common values that could cause network problems,
but by no means can catch all such combinations of values.
When it believes the values you specify could cause a problem, it
will display a warning, and ask you if you still wish to send the packet.
You can skip these checks (and the associated prompt) with the 
.B \-w 
option; your packet will be sent without comment.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To broadcast an ARP Request out the first interface that is up, requesting that 192.168.1.1 respond
with an ARP Reply:
.RS
.nf
\fBarpsend -t 192.168.1.1\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
In the example above, if my own IP address (on this interface) were 192.168.1.1,
the packet would be a Gratuitous ARP request.
Although the value of the
.I "target hardware address"
is not significant in a Gratuitous ARP request,
typical ARP implementations set it to
ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
when they send a Gratuitous ARP request; you can duplicate this behavior with:
.RS
.nf
\fBarpsend -T ff:ff:ff:ff:fff:ff -t 192.168.1.1\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
To unicast an ARP Request via interface le1 to 0:0:1:1:2:3, requesting that 192.168.1.1 respond
with an ARP Reply:
.RS
.nf
\fBarpsend -i le1 -e 0:0:1:1:2:3 -t 192.168.1.1\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
To send an ARP Reply that appears to come from
a device with IP address 192.168.1.3 and Ethernet address 0:0:1:1:1:1,
unicasting the packet to 0:0:1:9:9:9 (we'll pretend that the target
device's IP address is 192.168.1.4):
.RS
.nf
\fBarpsend -o 2 -E 0:0:1:1:1:1 -e 0:0:1:9:9:9 -S 0:0:1:1:1:1 -s 192.168.1.3 -T 0:0:1:9:9:9 -t 192.168.1.4\fP
.fi
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
The program was written by Irwin Tillman
of Princeton University's OIT Network Systems Group.
It was written to run on Solaris 9 and 10,
relying on the generally-available
.BR libnet (3)
library.
.SH BUGS
Does not support FDDI interfaces.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 10
RFC 826
.I "Address Resolution Protocol"
.TP 10
RFC 1122
.I "Host Network Requirements"
(Link Layer: Specific Issues, section 2.3)
.TP 10
.BR libnet (3)
(a.k.a libwrite, a packet writing library),
available from
http://www.packetfactory.net/libnet
